scraping-aa-open-notes.MD, before:

# The python file will scrape the lecture topics from App Academy Open
# Store these lecture topics as the keys, and store the zoom links + password as the value
# Initially, we will have to store these lecture topics separated in a list

# Interesting observations: we will need to use selenium webdriver because the page is dynamically loaded with JS
# The URLs of each page don't seem to be visible when we use inspect so here's the pattern!

# 1. Go to this link to start: https://open.appacademy.io/learn/js-py---pt-jan-2023-online/
# 2. Scrape all the weeks with a string that contains Week + DOES NOT contain 'ASSESSMENT'
# 3. The info is stored in a li: <li class="sc-kpOJdX jPCnwj">Week 1-2 Assessment</li>
# 4. GENERATE PROPER LINKS TO SCRAPE
    # 1. Format goes:
         # week-1
         # three dashes ( --- ) because a hyphen follows the week everytime
         # title of week (in lowercase)
         # commas become single dash: -
         # spaces become single dash: -
         # and becomes two dashes: --
         # vs. becomes two dashes: --
         # dashes become three dashes: ---

    # 2. Edge cases:
         # Looks like week 15: Week 15 - HTTP, REST, and Servers
         # has the word 'and' near the end, but the page url uses only a single hypen
         # link to page is: https://open.appacademy.io/learn/js-py---pt-jan-2023-online/week-15---http--rest--and-servers/
         # ******** However, even if we use the following link (with two dashes for the 'and'), chrome fixes it
         # https://open.appacademy.io/learn/js-py---pt-jan-2023-online/week-15---http--rest--and--servers/

# *************** 2nd Method ****************:
# Figure out how to get selenium webdriver to click on the link itself, then scrape that link.  I'm told this is very
# challenging because the bot has to go back to the main link, I'm confused as to why this is hard?  Maybe it's
# cause there are multiple threads going at once, and that's hard to balance?

# https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/#element-click  (LINK TO 2ND METHOD IF 1ST METHOD DOESN'T WORK! )

Commit message:

added current plan for how to scrape the topics from the days, as well as how to store them -> current plan is using the date as a key, and the topics in a tuple as the value

scraping-aa-open-notes.MD, after:

# The python file will scrape the lecture topics from App Academy Open
# Store these lecture topics as the keys, and store the zoom links + password as the value
# Initially, we will have to store these lecture topics separated in a list

# Interesting observations: we will need to use selenium webdriver because the page is dynamically loaded with JS
# The URLs of each page don't seem to be visible when we use inspect so here's the pattern!

# 1. Go to this link to start: https://open.appacademy.io/learn/js-py---pt-jan-2023-online/
# 2. Scrape all the weeks with a string that contains Week + DOES NOT contain 'ASSESSMENT'
# 3. The info is stored in a li: <li class="sc-kpOJdX jPCnwj">Week 1-2 Assessment</li>
# 4. GENERATE PROPER LINKS TO SCRAPE

** Current plan: 11:47pm 4-16-23

Need to scrape the titles of the topics we cover on that day

# should be the following class within the header tag
header.sc-gqjmRU.kvshPl

Now, we need to filter out the following key-words ["Learning Boost", "End of day", "Formative Quiz", "Check" ] (maybe not the word "Check")
We can use a list as seen above, and check if the text doesn't include anything from the list, then we save those topics

# How do we save the topics?
Convert the current day we are scraping into a week and day, for example, week1 Monday would be week1day1

Let's use a dictionary, with the key being STRING 'week1day1' and the value being the list of topics stored in a tuple

# It'll look like this:
{'week1day1': (Orientation, Skills Survey), 'week5day2': (Debugger, Recursion)}


    # 1. Format goes:
         # week-1
         # three dashes ( --- ) because a hyphen follows the week everytime
         # title of week (in lowercase)
         # commas become single dash: -
         # spaces become single dash: -
         # and becomes two dashes: --
         # vs. becomes two dashes: --
         # dashes become three dashes: ---

    # 2. Edge cases:
         # Looks like week 15: Week 15 - HTTP, REST, and Servers
         # has the word 'and' near the end, but the page url uses only a single hypen
         # link to page is: https://open.appacademy.io/learn/js-py---pt-jan-2023-online/week-15---http--rest--and-servers/
         # ******** However, even if we use the following link (with two dashes for the 'and'), chrome fixes it
         # https://open.appacademy.io/learn/js-py---pt-jan-2023-online/week-15---http--rest--and--servers/

# *************** 2nd Method ****************:
# Figure out how to get selenium webdriver to click on the link itself, then scrape that link.  I'm told this is very
# challenging because the bot has to go back to the main link, I'm confused as to why this is hard?  Maybe it's
# cause there are multiple threads going at once, and that's hard to balance?

# https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/#element-click  (LINK TO 2ND METHOD IF 1ST METHOD DOESN'T WORK! )
